---
title: Personal Statement
author: Colton Grainger
date: 2017-11-23
mathjax: true
---

The robustness of a mathematical method determines its utility. Just imagine designing a communication network that fails to account for dynamical perturbations, or modeling an epidemic with strictly deterministic differential equations. My goal, then, is to research robust topological methods for data analysis and physical applied mathematics.

For example, consider training an AI to distinguish the tone signature of different musical instruments. Applying persistent homology, we associate holes in an audio recording's time-delay phase-space with a sample statistic: the persistent rank function. Corresponding with Nikki Sanderson, I learned a computer trained on such PRFs will more accurately classify tone signatures than one trained on FFTs. Here, a topological invariant answers "which instrument?" with higher fidelity than frequency analysis.

My research interest stems from (i) my exposure to topology and its applications as a college senior, and (ii) insight from two years of service work since graduating. 

Advised by Dr. Jonny Comes, my senior independent study[^study] examined how Galois theory constrains the solution space $V$ of Fuchsian-type DiffEqs. Following Michio Kuga, I developed a correspondence between the fundamental group on $D = \mathbf{C}\setminus\{x_1,\ldots,x_n\}$ and this region's universal covering space $\tilde{D}$. Exploiting the representation of the group of covering transformations $\Gamma(\tilde{D} \to \tilde{D})$ as a group of linear automorphisms of $V$, I parameterized solutions to the hypergeometric DiffEq. For interesting cases, I found the monodromy representation at singular points, and generated plots. I presented my method, its history, and an application to fluid flow at The College of Idaho's 2016 student research conference.  At the same time, I studied point-set topology under Dr. Dave Rosoff. He led a small class in a modified Moore method: no lecture, only assigned theorems and student presentations. I built foundations from counter examples, often finding erratum in our notes by discovering non-intuitive spaces, e.g., consider a space $X$ whose open sets are exactly those sets with countable complements. Let $A \subset X$. For a every topological space, it is known "if $x_i \in A$ for each $i \in \mathrm{N}$ and $x_i \to x$, then $x$ is in the closure of $A$", but in our case, the converse fails to hold, as $X$ is not a second countable topology. We sampled category theory and progressed upto connectivity and compactness. I am enthusiastic to build from these *Grundlagen* up to higher results, one of which I reached in my senior study, another of which Nikki Sanderson demonstrated ahead of me.

[^study]: C. Grainger, [Applications of Galois Theory: Monodromy Groups and Fuchsian Differential Equation](http://coltongrainger.com/documents/cgrainger_coursework_galois_poster.pdf), The College of Idaho Student Research Conference, 2016.

I have gained insight on the necessity of *applications* (esp. with positive societal impact) by completing two years of voluntary service: in Houston, TX at a refugee resettlement agency and in Olympia, WA at a homeless shelter for families.  In Houston, under Shaoli Bhadra, I developed novel, scalable [resources](https://github.com/coltongrainger/ymca-resources) for refugee case management. I crowd sourced a [map of clinics and languages spoken](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1kk9yn6-4nifHLIf2tGYbW_7PiYo&usp=sharing) with the Google Maps API. I wrote bug reports for the implementation of a SQL case-notes database, and, when Texas cut funding for Refugee Medical Assistance, I contributed to a data management plan for the transition from state to federal indigent medical care.  In Olympia I am coordinating a volunteer program for a 24-hour homeless shelter. I cleave to a distributed workflow. I built [volunteer.fscss.org](https://volunteer.fscss.org) to manage a schedule of community events and to "reply all" to FAQs. As we rely on academic internships and work-studies, I am also collaborating with Dr. Catalino Ocampo at the Evergreen State College to write service-learning syllabi. In the coming year, I intend to apply for \$90,000 in grant funding for shelter operation.

I am serious, however, to pursue math as my vocation. While I am grateful for the opportunity to manage multiple projects and cultivate professional transparency, I find myself constrained in social services as an end-user of inefficient systems, bound to idiosyncratic practices. To prepare for advanced study,I have enrolled part-time in continuing education through the University of Idaho's Engineering Outreach program. I will complete courses in Probabilty, Ordinary Differential Equations, and Numerical Methods by May 2018. Independently, I am learning to chew on data with UNIX tools and to write interactive expositions with Juptyer notebooks.

Though I am open to a variety of research in applied math at CU Boulder, my experience with messy data sets and my appetite for topology leads naturally into topological data analysis. I would be enthusiastic to collaborate with Professors Meiss (APPM), Bradley (CSCI) and Agnes (MATH). I see fruitful work to be done with TDA in signal processing and network analysis; I am also curious to study higher-dimensional data in material science, esp. for ecological applications. Having read through recent publications from the above faculty, I get the sense that the Applied Math doctoral program at CU Boulder would be a great fit for my interests. 
